1\. A more complete history of the disk drive industry can be found in Clayton M. Christensen, "The Rigid Disk Drive Industry: A History of Commercial and Technological Turbulence," Business History Review (67), Winter, 1993, 531-588. This history focuses only on the manufacturers of rigid disk drives or hard drives-products on which data are stored on rigid metal platters. Companies manufacturing floppy disk drives (removable diskettes of flexible mylar coated with iron oxide on which data are stored) historically were different firms from those making hard disk drives.  
2\. Much of the data for this analysis came from Disk/Trend Report, a highly respected annual market research publication, augmented with more detailed product-specification sheets obtained from the disk drive manufacturers themselves. I am grateful to the editors and staff at Disk/Trend, Inc., for their patient and generous assistance in this project.  
3\. The concept of trajectories of technological progress was examined by Giovanni Dosi in "Technological Paradigms and Technological Trajectories," Research Policy (11), 1982, 147-162.  
4\. The ways in which the findings of this study differ from those of some earlier scholars of technology change while building upon those of others are discussed in greater detail in chapter 2.  
5\. The first technology for making heads built an electromagnet by wrapping a fine thread of copper wire around a core of iron oxide (ferrite); hence the term ferrite head. Incremental improvements to this approach involved learning to grind the ferrite to finer and finer dimensions, using better lapping techniques, and strengthening the ferrite by doping it with barium. Thin-film heads were made photolithographically, using technology similar to that used in making integrated circuits on silicon wafers to etch the electromagnet on the surface of the head. This was difficult because it involved much thicker layers of material than were common in IC manufacturing. The third technology, adopted starting in the mid-1990s, was called magneto-resistive heads. These were also made with thin-film photolithography, but used the principle that changes in the magnetic flux field on the disk surface changed the electrical resistivity of the circuitry in the head. By measuring changes in resistivity rather than changes in the direction of current flow, magneto-resistive heads were much more sensitive, and hence permitted denser data recording, than prior technology. In the evolution of disk technology, the earliest disks were made by coating fine needle-shaped particles of iron oxide-literally rust-over the surface of a flat, polished aluminum platter. Hence, these disks were called oxide disks. Incremental improvements to this technology involved making finer and finer iron oxide particles, and dispersing them more uniformly, with fewer uncoated voids on the aluminum platter's surface. This was supplanted by a sputtering technology, also borrowed from semiconductor processing, that coated the aluminum platter with a thin film of metal a few angstroms thick. The thinness of this layer; its continuous, rather than particulate nature; and the process's flexibility in depositing magnetic materials with higher coercivity, enabled denser recording on thin-film disks than was feasible on oxide disks.  
6\. Richard J. Foster, Innovation: The Attacker's Advantage (New York: Summit Books, 1986).  
Z The examples of technology change presented in Figures 1.1 and 1.2 introduce some ambiguity to the unqualified term discontinuity, as used by Giovanni Dosi (see "Technological Paradigms and Technological Trajectories," Research Policy [11] 1982), Michael L. Tushman and Philip Anderson (see "Technological Discontinuities and Organizational Environments," Administrative  
  
  
Science Quarterly [31], 1986), and others. The innovations in head and disk technology described in Figure 1.4 represent positive discontinuities in an established technological trajectory, while the trajectory-disrupting technologies charted in Figure 1.7 represent negative discontinuities. As will be shown below, established firms seemed quite capable of leading the industry over positive discontinuities, but generally lost their industry lead when faced with negative discontinuities.  
8\. This tendency consistently appears across a range of industries. Richard S. Rosenbloom and Clayton M. Christensen (in "Technological Discontinuities, Organizational Capabilities, and Strategic Commitments," Industrial and Corporate Change [3], 1994, 655-685) suggest a much broader set of industries in which leading firms may have been toppled by technologically straightforward disruptive innovations than is covered in this book.  
9\. A summary of the data and procedures used to generate Figure 1.7 is included in Appendix 1.1.  
10\. The minicomputer market was not new in 1978, but it was a new application for Winchester- technology disk drives.  
11\. This statement applies only to independent drive makers competing in the OEM market. Some of the vertically integrated computer makers, such as IBM, have survived across these generations with the benefit of a captive internal market. Even IBM, however, addressed the sequence of different emerging markets for disk drives by creating autonomous "start-up" disk drive organizations to address each one. Its San Jose organization focused on high-end (primarily mainframe) applications. A separate division in Rochester, MN, focused on mid-range computers and workstations. IBM created a different organization in Fujisawa, Japan, to produce drives for the desktop personal computer market.  
12\. This result is very different from that observed by Rebecca M. Henderson (see The Failure of Established Firms in the Face of Technological Change: A Study of the Semiconductor Photolithographic Alignment Industry, dissertation, Harvard University, 1988), who found the new-architecture aligners produced by the established manufacturers to be inferior in performance to those produced by entrant firms. One possible reason for these different results is that the successful entrants in the photolithographic aligner industry studied by Henderson brought to the new product a well-developed body of technological knowledge and experience developed and refined in other markets. In the case studied here, none of the entrants brought such well- developed knowledge with them. Most, in fact, were de novo start-ups composed of managers and engineers who had defected from established drive manufacturing firms.  
13\. This finding is similar to the phenomenon observed by Joseph L. Bower, who saw that explicit customer demands have tremendous power as a source of impetus in the resource allocation process: "When the discrepancy (the problem to be solved by a proposed investment) was defined in terms of cost and quality, the projects languished. In all four cases, the definition process moved toward completion when capacity to meet sales was perceived to be inadequate .... In short, pressure from the market reduces both the probability and the cost of being wrong." Although Bower specifically refers to manufacturing capacity, the same fundamental phenomenon-the power of the known needs of known customers in marshaling and directing the investments of a firm-affects response to disruptive technology. See Joseph L. Bower, Managing the Resource Allocation Process (Homewood, IL: Richard D. Irwin, 1970) 254.  
14\. In booking $113 million in revenues, Conner Peripherals set a record for booking more revenues in its first year of operation than any manufacturing company in United States history.  
15\. This finding is consistent with what Robert Burgelman has observed. He noted that one of the greatest difficulties encountered by corporate entrepreneurs has been finding the right "beta test  
  
  
sites" where products could be interactively developed and refined with customers. Generally, a new venture's entrée to the customer was provided by the salesperson representing the firm's established product lines. This helped the firm develop new products for established markets but not to identify new applications for new technology. See Robert A. Burgelman and Leonard Sayles, Inside Corporate Innovation (New York: The Free Press, 1986) 76-80.  
16\. I believe this insight-that attacking firms have an advantage in disruptive innovations but not in sustaining ones-clarifies, but is not in conflict with, Foster's assertions about the attacker's advantage. The historical examples Foster uses to substantiate his theory generally seem to have been disruptive innovations. See Richard J. Foster, Innovation: The Attacker's Advantage (New York: Summit Books, 1986).  
 